>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to this edition
of "Beyond Belief."
I'm with astrophysicist
and author Jeffrey Bennett.
And as you know,
Jeffrey writes a number
of books, textbooks
for colleges.
He writes children's
books that have
been read on the
International Space Station,
highlighting his dog, Max.
And he also, of
course, has written
a book about Albert Einstein.
"What is Relativity?"
Einstein, of course, being
the genius that he was.
Jeffrey, welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
>>JEFFREY BENNETT: Thank
you very much for having me.
>>NOORY: What made this
guy a genius, Jeffrey?
>>BENNETT: What makes
a person genius,
that's a tough question.
But in terms of
what he did was he
looked at the world
in a different way
than other people
were looking at it.
He learned the same physics as
other scientists of his time.
He knew of the same problems as
But he just looked at
it from a perspective
that was fresh and different
compared to others.
And that allowed him
to make discoveries
that really had been
waiting just for someone
to look at them
in the right way.
>>NOORY: Would other
people have discovered
what he discovered
had he not come along?
>>BENNETT: Yes.
And it's actually
very interesting.
Now remember, he
published his theory
of relativity in two parts--
the special theory in 1905,
and the general theory in 1915.
So we're coming up on
the 100th anniversary.
>>NOORY: And he
was young, right?
>>BENNETT: And he was 26 when
he published his special theory,
yeah.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>BENNETT: But
interestingly enough,
yes, the special theory solved
a number of outstanding problems
in physics.
And there's pretty good evidence
that several other scientists--
and one particular,
Poincare-- were
within months of
publishing the same thing.
>>NOORY: Ah, they were close.
>>BENNETT: They
were really close.
He beat them to the punch.
General relativity,
though-- Einstein,
with special
relativity, had solved
this set of outstanding
problems in physics.
And from everyone
else's perspective,
well, those problems are solved.
Now let's do
something different.
But there was something
bugging Einstein
about the special
theory, which was
that it didn't include gravity.
And he thought it needed
to, even though there
was no particular problem
that needed to be solved.
And that's what led him to push
ahead with general relativity.
So most historians
of science think
that if Einstein had not
published general relativity
in 1915, it might
have been two or three
decades before anyone
else got to it.
So he was way ahead there.
>>NOORY: Gravity seems to be
very important in what he does.
How come?
>>BENNETT: Gravity is really
what the theory turns out
to be all about in the end.
Special relativity,
where he just
deals with motion,
what's missing from it
is it deals with the
special case of motion that
doesn't include gravity
and that is essentially
at constant velocity.
Now, of course, you can't
move at a constant velocity
in general unless you
first accelerate to that.
>>NOORY: Correct.
>>BENNETT: But special
relativity doesn't really
tell you what to do with
the accelerating case.
And that was the part that
really bugged Einstein.
And it turned out,
through what he
calls the equivalence principle,
that acceleration, he realized,
was actually
equivalent to gravity.
And there's a little background
I can give you one that.
>>NOORY: Please.
>>BENNETT: If you think
about Newton's law of gravity
and Newton's laws of motion.
So Newton has a law that we
call a second law of motion
that force is equal to
mass times acceleration.
And he has a law of
gravity that tells us
that the force of gravity is
equal to this little equation
that involves the
masses of the objects.
Well, there's also,
for example, a law
of electromagnetism
that tells you
the force of
electromagnetism has
to do the charges
of these objects.
Now, the charges of objects
have absolutely nothing
to do with their mass.
And by analogy, you
might say, well,
the gravitational
mass of two objects
ought to have nothing to
do with the mass that's
in Newtons second law of force
equals mass times acceleration.
And yet it had been known
since Newton's times
that those masses are the same.
And all the other
physicists basically
said, well, that's an
interesting coincidence.
>>NOORY: However--
>>BENNETT: Einstein said,
maybe it's not a coincidence.
Maybe the reason
that they appear
to be the same-- this
gravitational mass
and this accelerating mass--
is because at a deeper
underlying level
in nature, they're
actually exactly the same thing.
And that's what he discovered.
In the general
theory of relativity,
he said they're both
curvature of spacetime.
>>NOORY: He did all
this on a chalkboard
with all his little figures
and everything else.
How far would he have gone
had he had a computer?
Had he had what we have today?
>>BENNETT: Actually,
I think probably
in terms of coming
up with the idea,
it wouldn't have
helped him a bit.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>BENNETT: Because the
idea-- the creative part--
>>NOORY: That's up here.
>>BENNETT: That's up here.
What he could have
done with the computer
is made his calculations
go a little faster once he
got to the part where
he had to do it.
In fact, one of the
reasons it took him
10 years from special relativity
until general relativity
is because the math he was
dealing with became quite hard.
And there were a few
times where he actually
made calculation errors
that threw him off.
>>NOORY: Which a computer
would have fixed.
>>BENNETT: A computer
would have helped
him avoid those
calculation errors, yes.
So it would have been
a little quicker, but--
>>NOORY: Would we have
learned something new
that we don't know
today had he had
a computer, in your opinion?
>>BENNETT: Well,
certainly today we
study his equations
with computers
and use them to
model the universe,
to model things
like black holes,
make predictions, test them out.
So, yes, we learn a lot
that wasn't possible
when we didn't have computers.
So if we'd had the
computers 100 years earlier,
we'd be that much further
ahead of the game today.
>>NOORY: I want to
talk with you about two
things with Einstein-- his
formula of E equals MC square,
and also time travel.
But with the E equals
MC square, energy
equals mass times the
speed of light squared.
That's enormous.
Is that how we got the atomic
bomb, because of that formula?
>>BENNETT: Yes.
Yes.
And one of the important things
to recognize about that formula
is that formula comes
straight out of his theory
of relativity.
In fact, it comes out of special
relativity, the mathematically
easier part, which is why
it's a fairly easy equation
to talk about.
And from that point of
view, people ask me a lot,
how do we know that
relativity is true?
How we know that it's real?
And one of the
reasons is because E
equals MC squared is an
equation of relativity.
And E equals MC squared
explains how the sun shines.
It explains how nuclear
power plants work.
It explains how
nuclear reactions work.
Right.
So every time, if you
go outside and you
feel the sun on
your arms, that's
proof that special
relativity is correct.
It's kind of an amazing thought.
>>NOORY: So when scientists
took that formula,
how did they know,
let's split uranium?
And why uranium,
Jeffrey, as opposed
to gold or some other element?
>>BENNETT: Well, it was
the kind of a complex path.
At the time that Einstein
published the theory,
there was actually a
big problem in science
with the age of the sun.
Because the only
mechanisms that scientists
knew of for how the
sun might produce
energy were either
chemical or physical--
by it shrinking in size.
And those, at best,
allowed the sun
to shine for a
few million years.
But the geologists were
already telling you
that the Earth is hundreds of
millions or billions of years
old.
So clearly, there
was something wrong.
The moment he published
E equals MC squared,
people realized, aha,
if the sun can turn mass
into energy, that
could explain how
it lives for billions of years.
But no one knew how
that would happen.
And it wasn't until
a couple decades
later that scientists
figured out how--
>>NOORY: Oppenheimer,
those kinds of people.
>>BENNETT: Yes,
Eddington, in particular.
How it could be that
hydrogen fusing into helium
could be losing a tiny bit
of mass converted into energy
and be the mechanism,
the sunshine.
Once they learned
that, then they
realized that nuclear reactions
could release energy through E
equals MC squared.
And then they began
to-- then they
were discovering
radioactivity also.
And uranium, it turned out,
had the magical properties
in a sense-- they're not
really magical-- that
make the atomic bomb possible.
And the particular thing is
that uranium 235, which is--
most of the uranium in the
ground is what we call uranium
238, and you cannot
build a bomb from it.
>>NOORY: You can't build a bomb.
>>BENNETT: And that's why
you hear about enrichment.
>>NOORY: And you can only
build a bomb from uranium 235?
>>BENNETT: Right.
So uranium 235 is mixed in
naturally with the uranium 238,
but at the very, very
small percentage.
>>NOORY: So you got
to pull that out.
>>BENNETT: So you
got a pull that out.
That's what enrichment is.
So when you hear about
the concerns about Iran
building these enrichment
centrifuges, that's
what they're doing
is they're separating
the 235 from the 238.
And the reason
the 235 is special
is because when it
decays, it actually
shoots out three neutrons.
And therefore, if you
have enough uranium 235
in one place, each of those
three hits another one
and causes them to each
spit out three more.
And then each of those, right,
are spitting out three more.
And that's a chain reaction.
And that's what the
nuclear bombs do.
>>NOORY: Who in the heck
would come up with that?
Unbelievable.
>>BENNETT: Yet, it
was kind of discovered
by accident in the
1930s that the chain
reaction was possible.
And as soon as
they discovered it,
they realized that there
was a potential for a bomb.
And then, of course,
during World War II,
the Manhattan Project
was started primarily
because the American
scientists were
afraid that the
German scientists--
>>NOORY: Were going to get--
>>BENNETT: Were going
to get it first.
>>NOORY: And they
were, they were close.
>>BENNETT: Well, it
actually turns out
that the Germans were
not really that close.
You know, there's a lot of
interesting history in there.
But the end result
was because we
were afraid the Germans were
working on a nuclear bomb,
we built it first.
And then, of course,
ironically used it on Japan.
>>NOORY: Had the
Germans gotten the bomb,
though, I think they
would have used it.
They probably would have
used it on London first.
And that would have
shut the war down.
>>BENNETT: Absolutely.
That would have been a
very, very bad thing.
And, of course, historically
people debate it.
My own view is that we did end
the war a lot faster because
of using that bomb.
And I think we also learned
an important lesson.
When you look at human history--
and we've talked previously
about my optimism for the human
species, and one of the things
that fuels my optimism
is the atomic bomb
is the first weapon
that humans have ever
built in mass
quantities and then
not used in mass quantities.
And I think part
of the reason is
because when we saw how much
damage one single one of these
could do in Japan, it scared us.
>>NOORY: Scared everybody.
>>BENNETT: Enough to
say, you know what?
We better not ever use these.
>>NOORY: And now there
are checks and balances.
The Russians have it.
The Chinese have it.
We have it.
Israel has it.
India has it.
Pakistan has it.
>>BENNETT: Yes, of course,
the more people get it,
the more easily it is for
those checks and balances
to fall apart.
>>NOORY: That's true.
>>BENNETT: And I'm very much
with George Shultz and Sam Nunn
and William Perry, other
former secretaries of state
who were working on
a nuclear-free world.
Eliminate all of
the nuclear weapons
and make sure no one
ever gets that again.
>>NOORY: But you'll have that
one country that hides theirs.
>>BENNETT: Well, you know,
you can't hide a whole lot
because it does
take big facilities
to build these things.
And if all of the countries
that have them now-- Russia, US,
China-- if we all agreed
together that no one can have
it, then when somebody goes and
tries to hide it or build one,
we just all go together
and take it out.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
If we didn't have uranium 235
on the planet, could any of this
be accomplished?
>>BENNETT: You can make
bombs with other materials--
plutonium, which we
make from uranium.
>>NOORY: We've made some, right.
>>BENNETT: But it would be
much, much more difficult.
Yeah, uranium 235's
an unfortunate thing.
>>NOORY: Why did the
Maker give us that?
That could have solved
every problem, right?
>>BENNETT: Yes, we would
have been better off
without that one,
I would say, yes.
>>NOORY: With Einstein's
theory of relativity,
one has to talk about time
travel and its possibilities.
Is it?
>>BENNETT: Well,
it's a good question.
Relativity does not
prohibit time travel.
Now, in fact, relativity makes
one-directional time travel--
>>NOORY: Possible
>>BENNETT: Very easy,
at least in principle.
Which is that when you
travel at a very high speed
relative to Earth, your
time passes slower.
So if you got into a spaceship
and if we could send you off
at fast enough speed to the
center of the galaxy 25,000
light years away and
back, 50,000 years
would pass on Earth
while you were gone.
But if you were
going fast enough,
you might only age a few years.
So you would have time traveled
50,000 years into Earth's
future.
Now, time travel
backwards, relativity--
>>NOORY: That's harder.
>>BENNETT: Does not
give us any way to do.
But it also doesn't
say it's not possible.
So one of the great
mysteries of physics today
is, is time travel possible,
and if not, why not?
>>NOORY: And that's
baffling for me.
Because when people
talk about going back
into time to see
events-- World War II,
Jesus, things like
that-- to me is
there like a tape recorder
of life, a video recorder
capturing all these
events that have occurred.
That when you then
travel back in time,
you are rewinding
this video recorder,
looking at these events.
Or are these events simply gone?
They're gone.
I don't know.
>>BENNETT: Well, the events--
and it's one of the points
that I make very
strongly in the book, why
I think relativity is
so important for people
to understand--
events are never gone.
OK, the events that are
happening right here, right
now-- you and I talking.
This moment is propagating
out into the universe
at the speed of light.
The information.
Now, you know, realistically,
the ceiling of the building
and stuff may be
blocking the signal,
but if you ignore that,
then you can imagine someone
with-- someone on the
moon-- since the moon is
one light second away-- would
see all this happening one
second after it
actually happens.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>BENNETT: Someone out at Alpha
Centauri, four light years
away, could watch the
show four years from now.
>>NOORY: We'd be
done and home by now.
>>BENNETT: Right.
And a million light
years away, they
will be able to watch this
taking place just like it
is live for us,
but they will not
see it until a million
years from now.
But this signal is
permanent in the universe.
It is moving out there.
>>NOORY: But it's
all relative, right?
>>BENNETT: But it's
going out along the way.
Now if there is an
intelligent species that
has set up a video
camera somewhere,
then they could, in
principle, record
all of Earth's history, every
event that's ever happened.
And if they feel like sharing it
with us sometime in the future,
then we'll get to watch.
>>NOORY: OK.
But if the individual on the
planet-- planet Earth-- said,
I want to go back and see that
Jeffrey Bennett, George Noory
moment, how do they do that?
>>BENNETT: Well,
that's the trick.
Because the problem is, if
that were possible, then
you have the Back to the
Future issues, right,
of changing history.
And that's where most scientists
suspect that we will eventually
discover a law of
nature that prohibits--
>>NOORY: That prohibits it.
>>BENNETT: Time travel.
Stephen Hawking has
said, "Time travel
should be prohibited
in order to make
the world safe for historians."
But so far, we don't know--
>>NOORY: I know
what he's headed at.
>>BENNETT: We don't know what
that law of nature is yet.
So far, we don't know of
anything prohibiting it.
But there's a good chance we'll
someday find that there is one.
>>NOORY: Jeffrey,
what about worm holes?
Can you travel
through a wormhole?
Is it like a time tunnel?
>>BENNETT: That's a
really great question.
Now wormholes is
the idea that you
might be able to
connect distant points
of the universe
in a shorter way.
>>NOORY: Instantly.
Like folding two dots
to a piece of paper.
>>BENNETT: And the idea
is that the universe
is a four-dimensional structure.
We don't see that, but
that's what relativity
tells us, is that
there's actually
four dimensions to the universe.
So the analogy is
that the universe
might be like the surface
of a rubber sheet.
And so you look along the rubber
sheet and here's two points
and they're a long
way from each other.
OK.
But what if the
rubber sheet folds?
They're still a long
away from each other.
But what if you then dug
a tunnel between them?
Then they're close.
That's the wormhole.
Now, interestingly enough,
mathematically, wormholes
must exist, according
to Einstein's theory
of relativity.
>>NOORY: Are we
convinced they do?
>>BENNETT: The problem
we have-- We're not
convinced because they're
a mathematical structure
and in science
we're not convinced
until we have physical evidence.
And there's no
physical evidence.
The problem
mathematically also is
that even though
mathematically they
exist in Einstein's general
theory of relativity,
it also shows that the
moment you try to enter one,
it collapses.
>>NOORY: Ah ha.
>>BENNETT: So
there's no known way
that you could use
them for travel.
However, if you
could-- and there
might be things we'll discover
in the future-- Kip Thorne,
a relativity physicists
from Caltech,
worked with Carl Sagan when
Carl wrote his novel, "Contact,"
and in the movie, imagined this
network of wormholes connecting
things throughout the universe.
>>NOORY: That's
how they traveled.
>>BENNETT: That's
And they found a way
to keep them stable.
There's nothing,
again, right now
in our laws of physics
that say you can't do that.
Maybe it is possible,
which would be really cool.
>>NOORY: Are there
other dimensions
out there in the universe?
>>BENNETT: Well, we know
there are the four dimensions
of spacetime that
make up our universe.
Whether there's others
is not known yet.
>>NOORY: We don't know that.
>>BENNETT: Now in
some of the ideas
that try to reconcile
quantum mechanics
and relativity together--
which none of these ideas
have been tested yet-- but
some of those ideas require,
on a microscopic scale,
things be wrapped up
to 10 dimensions
or 26 dimensions
or these other wild ideas.
So other dimensions
almost certainly exist.
Whether they have any
bearing on us in our universe
is the scientific question.
>>NOORY: When you
wrote the book, "What
is Relativity?" what fascinated
you the most, Jeffrey?
>>BENNETT: Well,
I think relativity
is amazing in many, many ways.
And the reason I wrote the book
is because we're coming up here
on the 100th
anniversary next year
of Einstein's general
theory of relativity.
This is the theory that is at
the heart of all modern physics
and astronomy.
You cannot do anything
in the science of physics
and astronomy
without relativity.
>>NOORY: This is it.
This is the holy grail.
>>BENNETT: This is it.
It also explains
why your GPS works.
It also explains why our show
is going out there into space
and is a permanent
record in the universe.
And to me, that's all
really important for people
to understand, even if
you're not a physicist.
Everyone should have at least
some basic understanding
of this theory.
And yet, most people
know nothing about it.
So that's what I
wrote the book for,
to try to give people who are
not physicists, who've never
studied this before, a little
short introduction to what
these amazing ideas are
that Einstein came up with.
And why they matter to you.
>>NOORY: What was Einstein doing
when he wasn't a physicist?
Did he have hobbies?
What did he like to do?
>>BENNETT: Einstein had
quite an amazing life.
And another one of
the things that I
think makes relativity
important is the way
it reveals the human potential.
And that is really shown
by Einstein himself.
You know, he was working
at a time-- as a Jewish man
at a time when there was a
great deal of anti-Semitism,
even back at the
turn the century
that he had to deal with.
And then he had to leave Germany
when the Nazis were coming
to power and came to the United
States and continued his work--
>>NOORY: Lucky us.
>>BENNETT: In the United States.
Yes.
And he managed, despite all
the hardships around the world,
to always see the positive.
He was a forceful
advocate for peace.
He was a forceful advocate
for women's rights
and for global human rights.
>>NOORY: Did he have children?
Was he married?
>>BENNETT: He did.
His personal life
had some issues.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>BENNETT: Yeah.
I don't go into
those in this book.
Walter Isaacson wrote a
wonderful biography of Einstein
where he goes into those kinds
of things in much more detail.
As we often find with
some of our famous people,
sometimes they embody
these great ideals,
but have difficulty living
up to them personally.
>>NOORY: Yes, that's true.
>>BENNETT: That
doesn't change the fact
that they've embodied
these great ideals that
can inspire the rest of us.
But Einstein really
showed how you
could take the human potential,
just with our creative power,
and discover amazing things,
despite the problems going on
in the world, and then use
the platform that he got--
he became famous
because of his science--
and then he used that
to promote world peace,
to promote human
rights and so on.
So I think it's a
great example of what
we do when we're at our best.
>>NOORY: How do you think he
felt when he saw that formula,
E equals MC squared, used
to make the atomic bomb?
>>BENNETT: Well, of course,
he actually wrote a letter
to President
Roosevelt suggesting
that we should go ahead
with the Manhattan Project.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>BENNETT: Because
he was worried
the Germans would get
it first and because he
knew that if they got
it, they would use it.
Nevertheless, after
it was used in Japan,
he then started an organization
of scientists dedicated
to eliminating nuclear
weapons from the world.
Obviously, at the time,
he did not succeed.
But today that work
is being carried
on by this bipartisan group
of former secretaries of state
led by-- Henry Kissinger is the
leader of this group working
for a nuclear-free world.
>>NOORY: It would be nice.
>>BENNETT: It would be nice.
>>NOORY: At the same
time, did this theory
cause the origination of nuclear
power and things like that?
>>NOORY: Nuclear power
also comes from that, yes.
So when you're working for--
when I say nuclear free,
I mean nuclear bomb-free.
>>NOORY: Free.
>>BENNETT: Not
nuclear power-free.
Nuclear power is
probably something
that we really want to work on.
There's a lot of debate
about nuclear power,
but in my mind,
the biggest problem
we face as a civilization
is global warming.
And nuclear power doesn't
emit any greenhouse gases.
So in my mind, nuclear power
is a very important part
of the solution to the problem.
>>NOORY: Of course, you saw what
happened at Fukushima in Japan.
Did you think twice then
about supporting that?
>>BENNETT: I think
that, when you
see that, you realize we have to
be very, very careful about it.
But to some extent--
and Carl Sagan
actually was an advocate of
this and expressed it very well.
And it's basically
the idea that even
if we have a Fukushima or a
few Fukushimas, that's horrible
and we should do everything
possible to avoid it.
But it causes damage
to a localized region,
where as global
warming is threatening
the entire planet and
all of human existence.
So given that trade
off, we're still
probably better off
with nuclear power.
And there is actually
technology today
that would make
Fukushimas impossible.
We have fail-safe
nuclear technologies
that we could implement.
>>NOORY: Which they
should have done there.
>>BENNETT: Which they
So the question is, when we
do build nuclear power plants
in the future,
will we build them
the right way or the wrong way?
>>NOORY: If you had an
audience with Albert Einstein,
what would you ask him?
>>BENNETT: Oh, wow.
That's a great question.
I've never really
thought about that one.
I'd really want to know, given
the way the world has evolved
since he died in 1955, what
would he tell us to do now?
Because I think he'd
have good ideas.
>>NOORY: What do you think
he'd think of the world today?
>>BENNETT: I think he
would see it largely
in a very positive light.
You know, he lived through
World War II and the Holocaust
and all these really
horrible things.
And there's a lot of bad stuff
going on in the world today.
But compared to World War II--
>>NOORY: That was pretty bad.
>>BENNETT: Yeah this
stuff's minor in comparison
to a Hitler.
>>NOORY: Unless we
build up to that again.
>>BENNETT: And yeah, but I
think we're doing better.
People complain about
the United Nations,
but it does a lot of good stuff.
I think we're better
than we used to be.
>>NOORY: What year did
he die, do you remember?
>>BENNETT: He died in 1955.
>>NOORY: '55.
So he was 14 years short of
seeing us land on the moon.
That would have been
exciting for him.
>>BENNETT: It would have
been exciting for him.
But I'll also tell
you, shortly before he
died, he gave one of
my favorite quotations
from him, which is, when asked
about the meaning of death,
he said, "Death
signifies nothing.
The distinction between
past, present and future
is only a stubbornly
persistent illusion."
And so I think he knows that in
the permanence of spacetime--
that idea that this
moment exists somewhere--
>>NOORY: Lives forever--
>>BENNETT: The
universe-- everyone
makes a permanent
mark in spacetime.
And I think one of the things
that Einstein was telling us
with that quote
and with his theory
is that nothing's
ever over, right?
Every action you take
is recorded permanently
in the universe.
And I think if
everybody understood
that-- and it's
one of the reasons
I wrote this book-- is
if everyone understood
that everything they
do is permanent,
maybe we'd all
behave a little bit
better because we'd want to
make sure that those permanently
recorded actions
didn't reflect badly.
>>NOORY: Was he a
believer in God?
>>BENNETT: Einstein
believed in God, but not
in a traditional
religious sense.
>>NOORY: A higher power?
>>BENNETT: A higher
power, yes, yes.
>>NOORY: Which, you
know, he may be right.
>>BENNETT: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: He may have been right.
>>NOORY: There is a higher
intelligence out there,
I think, driving
things in the universe.
And I wonder how he would have
handled the multiverse theory.
>>BENNETT: That's
a good question.
I think he would not
like the multiverse,
I could say fairly confidently.
Because the multiverse
comes out of some
of the very same ideas
in quantum mechanics
that bugged him so much.
You know, he famously
in an argument
with Niels Bohr about
quantum mechanics--
>>NOORY: A physicist
at the time.
>>BENNETT: Right.
Which involves-- quantum
mechanics introduces
a lot of probability into
events in the universe.
And Einstein's objection to it
that he phrased simply to Bohr
was, "God does not play dice."
And Bohr's response
to Einstein was,
"Stop telling God what to do."
>>NOORY: Maybe they
were both right.
>>BENNETT: Perhaps, yes.
>>NOORY: Maybe they
were both right.
Will we ever get
another Einstein?
>>BENNETT: I think we
have other Einstein's.
But Einstein made a truly
revolutionary discovery,
so he comes in line
with Newton, who
made truly revolutionary
discoveries.
And there's others who made very
revolutionary discoveries that
are not quite as famous.
We're, in some
sense, still waiting
for a discovery as
big as relativity.
It's been 100 years.
And while we've made many
incredible discoveries
since then, I'm not
sure that any of them
have altered our perception
of spacetime and the universe
to the extent that
relativity did.
>>NOORY: It would be
great to have seen him
at CERN watching the
particle collider.
>>BENNETT: Correct.
>>NOORY: That would
have been something.
>>BENNETT: He would
have loved that.
>>NOORY: Jeffrey, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>BENNETT: Thank you so much.
I really appreciate it.
>>NOORY: I love things in space,
and astrophysicist Jeffrey
Bennett brings it home, does he?
With his books for children,
with his books for college,
and of course, his latest,
"What is Relativity?"
all About Albert Einstein.
I'm George Noory and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]